Python is a high-level programming language. Meaning that it is easily readable for humans. It is far less abstract than machine code which is the only one that can be read by computers. Allowing coders to focus on the what instead of the how of a problem they are trying to solve.  On the flipside one of the limitations brought on by this is that to be read by a computer it must be passed by an interpreter. By this we also mean that it is not running the actual hardware, say the laptop you run it on. But rather, it creates a virtual environment within hardware that allows the user to easily run programs. This is a key affordance of this kind of programming; it is far more accessible in terms of understanding and physicality. Another dimension of this aspect is that it is open-source. This I can describe as almost inherent to this form of digital platform. However, it is important as it allows for community to be built around it. Its openness allows for code to be built on code. Some other limitations of this kind of language are that they are less fast, precise and efficient which depending on what operation you are trying to perform can be important. I bring up the classification of it as a high level language to say that  it is a media  technology that is built upon many, many, many layers. The Markov library I used in my program can be created by typing more extensive lengthy code. It is based on a mathematical system that was created outside of code. Python was inspired by ABC language which was inspired by BASIC which was developed from FORTRAN II which was developed by IBM. The code I am learning and writing is an abstraction of layers of programming. In many ways it’s like a technological palimpsest. I am writing this code inside an editor on top of a machine that is coded in 0’s and 1’s. And this relationship can be seen the other way around too. Programming languages are the foundation for many of the media technologies we have discussed and many of the digital platforms my peers analyzed for this project.  


All these previously mentioned affordances and limitations are general to most high-level languages. Now let's look at how python differs in this category. A lot of information distribution and analysis of digital content happens on systems built on python. So while python isn’t for instance instagram, it is a tool/platform that largely helps power it. One of the biggest limitations is that it requires learning, access to a computer, and for larger operations a lot of other parts in order to function. In my analysis I’ve predominantly focused on how it compares to other programming languages but I want to extend that to other media forms. Coding for the average person seems to be done by predominantly white male nerds. That is not entirely a made up stereotype propagated by mass media. In 2014 data from Silicon Valley firms reflected “White employees make up 41 percent of professional jobs and 57 percent of management jobs. This is roughly a positive difference of about 16 percentage points.” (USA EEOC) An overwhelmingly white industry  that codes in a way similar to what Lorna Roth described; Dysconsciously.  In many ways its back-end invisibility and the built by many in layers aspect; has allowed for programmers to code things using python without having to really think about their impact on society at large. One of Python’s most common applications is data processing. In one of our non required texts; Race after Technology by Ruha Benjamin, it is described how data propagates racism within our society.  “In a recent audit of California's gang database, not only do Blacks and Latinxs constitute 87 percent of those listed, but many of the names turned out to be babies under the age of 1, some of whom were supposedly ‘self-described’ gang members’”. (Benjamin, 6) We as society become coded. This becomes even more prevalent when we think of AI. It’s not a new technology, but we are interacting with it in a new way. For it to function programs like python need to exist. In fact the markov library created within Python is used in natural language processing. I am replicating an AI-like function to illustrate that it will deliver what I or we encode into it. McLuhan could be problematic but his notion of the “medium is the message” truly permeates so much of today’s media landscape. 
